These are the files from my senior project. The project was focused on attempting to convert thoughts to speech using EEG signals from the brain using the Emotiv EPOC headset, and applying pattern recognition techniques to convert the signals to a word in a given dictionary. The code was written in C# using Visual Studio. We believe the project was a step in the right direction and shows that something like this could eventually be possible. The project uses a very simple GUI in which users can select whether they want to train the system or attempt to match words to training data they have previously entered.

The files should all be able to be run in Visual Studio, but no data will be able to be obtained without one of Emotiv's headsets. The file ReadingCSV.cs will not run properly without first downloading the CSVHelper library written by Josh Close.

This project could be improved in the future by making the GUI much more interactive. The login system does not work properly as the code is written, and we limit users to only using a dictionary of 15 words we chose. It would be great for users to be able to define custom dictionaries based on words they want. The project was motivated to help people who are no longer able to physically communicate due to an illness or injury to convey their basic needs. Another improvement would be to heavily improve the algorithm for matching signals to words. When we created this project, we knew nearly nothing about machine learning or pattern recognition. Even some basic techniques such as K-means or SVM could improve the results dramatically.
